**Regions and Zones**

**Regions**

Regions are the specific geographical locations around the world where your resources are located. Different regions have different pricing. You can choose the region where you want to deploy your resources. You can also choose to deploy your resources in multiple regions. Distributing your resources in multiple regions can help you to achieve better availability, lower latency and better overall performance. These regions comply to the local laws and regulations of the country where they are located which also helps you to gain compliance and increase the security of your resources while also increasing the global footprint of your resources.

**Zones**

Each regions consists of three or more zones which are isolated locations within the region. These zones are connected to each other through low-latency links. These zones have one or multiple *Discrete Clusters* in data centers. These discrete clusters are distinct physical infrastructure that is housed in a data center. These zones are designed to be independent of each other and are isolated from failures in other zones. This helps to achieve high availability and fault tolerance over the regions.

For Example we have a region named 'us-west1 (Oregon)' which has three zones named 'us-west1-a', 'us-west1-b' and 'us-west1-c'. These zones are connected to each other through low-latency links. Similarly we have another region named 'us-central1 (Iowa)' which has four zones named 'us-central1-a', 'us-central1-b', 'us-central1-c' and 'us-central1-f'.