**Cloud Native**

In easiest way, it is reffered to a application which is cloud independent and cloud agnostic. Cloud native consists of cloud technologies like microservices, container orchestrator, etc. It is designed in this way that you can get the best value from the google cloud. It is designed in such a way from the ground to take advantage of the elasticity and distributed nature of the cloud.
Here elasticity indicates to the flexibility that comes with the cloud provider which lets you have resources on the go like when you need servers you provision them and when your work is done you just simply release them.

Here the main goal is to achieve the increase in software delivery velocity and increase service reliability while increasing the collaboration among the stakeholders here it is your development team, business team, operations team can work together.

*Four Cloud Native Pillar*

*Microservices:* Microservice architecture lets you fix the issues and deliver the new features quickly, without impacting the other services.

*Containers:* Containers are portable so they can be build once and can be run anywhere which allows you to have simplified consistent deployments. Containers are lightweight which lets you have the faster deployments than VMs.

*Container Orchestration:* *Kubernetes* or service *GKE* which gives you features like Auto-Scaling, Load Balancing, Self Healing, Zero Downtime Deployment, etc.

*DevOps(Dev+Ops,CI/CD,IaC):* DevOps as a whole process increases the automation of processes.

*Example of a Non-Cloud Native Process:* Using Virtual Machines for the manual deployments while creating infrastructure manually.

*Modern Architecture: 3 Container Compute*

<table>
<tr>
<th>Service</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Type</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Run</td>
<td>Develop and Deploy highly scalable containerized applications. This service does not need a cluster!</td>
<td>CaaS(Serverless)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Google Kubernetes Engine</td>
<td>This lets you orchestrate the containerized microservices on Kubernetes that needs advanced cluster configuration and monitoring at the same.</td>
<td>CaaS</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Anthos</td>
<td>This service lets you manage the kubernetes clusters in multi-cloud and on-premises.</td>
<td>Hybrid Cloud</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Modern Architecture: Serverless Example*

<table>
<tr>
<th>Service</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Functions</td>
<td>This service is a serverless compute for event-driven apps. Execute function (or Code) in response to events</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Run</td>
<td>This service lets you to run the isolated containers, without orchestration or serverless. Here you do not need to provision and manage the VMs. Here it lets you to start containers in seconds.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Firestore</td>
<td>This service is for the apps that needs quickly evolving structure(Schema less). Serverless transactional document database supporting both mobile and web apps. This is preffered for small to medium DBs(0-few TBs).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Dataflow</td>
<td>This is a serverless stream and batch processing using the Apache Beam(Open-Source).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Pub/Sub</td>
<td>This is a realtime messaging service in cloud. Here you pay for the number of the messages you get.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BigQuery</td>
<td>This is a service which lets you have the relational OLAP, Data Warehousing and BigData workloads. Here you pay for the data stored and the queries executed.</td>
</tr>
</table>
