**Digital Transformation**

*Enterprises Need to Adapt*

- This lets enterprises provide an awesome(omni-channel-social, mobile) customer experiences.
- This lets you gather the intelligence from the data that lets you have services over Big Data, AI/ML.
- Enterprises allows themselves to make the changes faster. This can be a cultural change from the "traditional datacenter, SDLC, Manual IT Ops" to "Cloud, Containers, DevOps/SRE, Automation".

*Digital Transformation*

Using the today's technologies with the cutting edge tech you can create (or modify) the business processes and the customer experiences by innovating with the tech and the team culture.

Here it makes the focus on increasing the pace of change, revenue growth, cost savings and Higher customer engagement and retention.

*Cloud Enabler for Digital Transformation*

- Cloud lets you enable the digital workspace at a lower cost, while reducing the resposibilities so if you want you can shift towards the IaaS, PaaS or SaaS models, Also there are higher capabilities while increasing your speed to market.

But when it comes to overall change you need to have right skills with the right mindset and culture for implimenting the things. When you move with all of these things in mind you need to have a mordern architecture knowledge (microservice, serverless, containers, kubernetes.) Plan about shifting towards the agile model process of having things like DevOps and SRE in place to make automation.

With all these there should be suitable environments with the right talent and right culture which lets you have data driven experimentation and innovation.

*Cloud Mindset*

<table>
<tr>
<th>Factor</th>
<th>Data Center</th>
<th>Cloud</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Infrastructure</td>
<td>Buy</td>
<td>Rent</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Planning</td>
<td>Ahead of time</td>
<td>Provision when you need it</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Deployment</td>
<td>VMs</td>
<td>PaaS or Containers or Serverless</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Team</td>
<td>Specialized Skills</td>
<td>T-Shaped Skills</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Releases</td>
<td>Manual</td>
<td>CI/CD with the flexible release options(Canary, A/B Testing)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Attitude</td>
<td>Avoid Failures</td>
<td>Move fast by reducing the cost of failures in the SDLC(Automation of testing, releases, infrastructure creation and monitoring)</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Google Cloud Adoption Framework*

- It is a streamlined framework which lets you adopt the cloud seamlessly.

- There are four themes in this framework:
1. Learn: You need team-mates with the right skills to make your technology adoption a right choice.
2. Lead: You need to structure your team in such a way so you they can cross-function, brainstorm, experimenting and innovating.
3. Scale: This is one of the most important thing that lets you to have everything at a scale and automate all your tasks from the manual processes, which consists of processes like Provisioning and scaling infrastructure, application releases, monitoring.
4. Secure: This lets you protect the unauthorized and inappropriate access that lets you control, strategies and technology.

- There are three phases in this whole adoption process:
1. Tactical: This is the phase that lets you move to the cloud with the minimum changes to the whole process including the people's, processes and technology. Here you can make use of IaaS which is mainly used for cost savings. This is more of like moving with bare minimum changes 
2. Strategic: This is about making some degree of changes to the process or technology and the people's associated with it and this is an isolated part of an enterprise. Here it is more of done by harnessing additional value of cloud.
3. Transformational: This phase lets you fully invest in the cloud technologies and make the organization cloud first, fully automated and cross functional feature teams. This phase is more of driven by data and intelligence while adopting and SRE practices.
Examples:
1. Virtual Desktop Solution: This lets you have a virtual desktop solution on google cloud.
2. Backup and Disaster Recovery Solutions, this happens automatically when you step into the world of cloud computing.
3. VMware as a Service: Here comes the Google Cloud VM ware engine in place which lets you lift and shift your VMware infrastructure to google cloud.
4. Bare Metal Solution: This service allows you to move your specialized workloads(SAP) that really requires high performance.
5. Migrate for Compute Engine: This service lets you to migrate your VMs and VM Storage workloads to Google Compute Engine.

- Benefits of this:
1. Lower the overall costs.
2. Reduce focus on the infrastructure

But still you're not making full use of the cloud technologies while being in the cloud.

*Application Mordernization*

Migrating to Platform as a serverless offerings:
1. Containerization
2. Container Orchestration tools and services(GKE, Anthos). Here also the Migrate for Anthos and GKE comes in place which lets your mordernize your apps by moving from VMs to containers.
3. Make use of cloud datbases and data warehouses.

Application Modernization is not just limited to this in-fact it is more about using the best DevOps and SRE practices like (Cloud Build, Cloud Monitoring).
1. This is done for making move fast by reducing the cost of failures

When you think all about this you can think about having a managed service that simplifies overall application maintenance and lifecycle. Managed services have good integration with the cloud build, cloud monitoring and cloud logging services. It can be seen like as services like App Engine, GKE, Cloud Run support multiple release approaches.

There is an additional innovation provided by managed services
- BigQuery ML: Create and execute ML models directly in BigQuery using the standard SQL queries.

*Business Platform Modernization*

- This comes into the picture when you want things like:
1. You don't want to move your legacy system to Cloud.
2. If you want to enable external developers and partners to build applications for you.
3. Building APIs around legacy code to simplify the integration process.
4. There is a need of managed service like Apigee API management, Cloud Endpoints which lets you take care of the entire lifecycle of API of designing, securing, publishing, analyzing, monitoring and monetize APIs.

There are some advantages of it like:
- This lets you integrate with the legacy applications.
- This lets you build new business channels and allows you to create an ecosystem of developers and partners. 

*Infrastructure Modernization*

- Lift and Shift: This is a process of moving all your present infrastructures AS-IS to the Google Cloud's infrastructure. Example is Virtual Desktop Solution: This lets you have a virtual desktop solution on google cloud. 
