**Cost Management in Google Cloud**

*Total Cost of Ownership*

This is the total cost which is incured in the whole process taking cost of ownership into account. The total cost of ownership covers all these things in reference:
- Infrastructure costs which covers the processes like procuring the servers, databases, storage, networking solutions and the costs like infrastructure maintainence costs.
- IT personnel costs
- Software Costs
- Electricity Costs

*Consumption-based vs Fixed-price Models*

- Consuption based model is that where you are billed for only what you use. For example: Cloud Functions where you pay for the number of invocations or Cloud Storage where you pay for only the amount of data you store in the cloud storage.

- Fixed Price model where you pay for the instances whether you make use of them or not. Example can be a VM instance, you pay for that VM instance whether you pay for it or not, another example can be a GKE Cluster where you pay for the cluster irrespective of you deploy any application to it or not.

*CapEx vs OpEx*

Capital expenditure is the money that you spend to buy the infrastructure, which comes with the extra cost of maintaining and running the infrastructure ahead of time. Here in this model you need to have a team of people's that to manage the infrastructure. The example of such usecase can be, Deploying your own data center with the physical servers or Purchasing the committed use discounts which involves reserving the hardware for certain period of time or Leasing a software for certain period.

Operational expenditure is the money you spent to use a service or a product but with the operational expenditure you save with zero upfront costs and here you pay for the services as you make use of them. Example of this is Provisioning a VM or any other cloud resources as you need them.

*How is this Cost is Decided?*

<table>
<tr>
<th>Factor</th>
<th>Details</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Resource Type and Configuration</td>
<td>It is decided on the basis of How much Memory, How much CPU, and what is the access tier you provision for your VM.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Usage Meters</td>
<td>How much your VM was running for. How much ingress and egress your VM is making. How many invocations you are using for the cloud functions. </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Which region your cloud resources are deployed in.</td>
<td>Here the prices varies from region to region. Like the same VM will have a different cost in a different region.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Data Transfer</td>
<td>Ingress(Inbound Data Transfer) or Egress(Outbound Data Transfer)
Inbound data transfer from on-premises to GCP is free.
Outbound data transfer from GCP to on-premises is not free.
Egress to the same google cloud zone when using the internal IP addresses for the resources is free or If a google cloud service in one region is talking to another service in another region using internal IP address you might be charged for it</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Reserved or Not</td>
<td>Some services offer reservation ahead of the time</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Google Cloud Pricing Calculator*

- This lets you estimate the cost of google cloud solution in place.
- This lets you estimate over 40+ services across the google cloud workspace.
- It is also a great learning solution to take out the pricing of the solution you will be planning and designing.
- It gives you a overview of this whole estimation.

*GCP Cost Management*

In cloud we use the Pay as you Go Model, you pay for how much you use. Here the cost management tools comes into place, which can be used for monitoring, controlling your costs.

In the billing section of your google cloud account you can have all things ready.

- Cost Billing Reports: This is the overall projection of your usage costs. This lets you analyze your trends by Project, Service, Location, Labels, etc.

- Cost Table Report: This is the detailed overview which lets you dynamically filter, sort and group your transactions across various lines.

- Cost Breakdown: This is the overall breakout of the base usage costs, credits, adjustments and taxes.

- You can create budgets by settings the constrains like scope of that budget whether you want it keep it upto your which projects and which services you want to cover in it, whether you want to include the discounts and promotional offers into its context.

- You can have multiple billing accounts and one billing account for multiple projects.

*Managing Costs- Best Practices*

- You can group resources together based on cost ownership, for example, Folders, Projects, Labels, etc.
- Regular cost review should be conducted to check the cloud spendings at least weekly. Where as CapEx planning should be done in advance and there should be OpEx which can be done as regular reviews.
- You can estimate the costs before you deploy any cloud resource for which you can refer to the pricing calculator.
- You can also make use of the cost management features like cost table reports budgets and cost alerts, etc.
- You can also stop the resources when they're not in use and don't need them.
- You can choose the managed services over the unmanaged one as they reduce the overhead of managing the services. (PaaS>>>IaaS)
- You may reserve VMs for 1 or 3 years (Committed use discounts.)
- If you have timely need of resources you can make use of preemptible VMs for fault tolerant non-critical workloads.
- You can involve all the teams of your project or your organization to get the best out of it by executive, management, business, technology and finance.

*Some Things to Remember:*

- You can have regular weekly meetings to review costs with all the stakeholders, which can be a good practice for cloud cost management.
- When you think of building your own datacenter comes under capital expenditure.
- When you run your own datacenter, paying electricity bill and operating cooling towers for your own data centers comes under the operational expenditure.
- One, thing to keep note Compute Engine VMs vary from one region to another region.
- You want to be able to control your Google Cloud costs. You want to make sure they stay within the monthly budget. You can use budgets and alerts to set budget and get alerted by email.  