**Review Google Cloud Services**

*Compute Services in Google Cloud*

<table>
<tr>
<th>GCP Service Name</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GCE or Compute Engine</td>
<td>These are the windows or linux based VMs which can be also said as IaaS offering. Here when you need control over OS or you want to run your custom workloads this comes into picture.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Preemptible VMs</td>
<td>These are the short lived virtual machines for non-critical and unstable workloads</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sole Tenant Nodes</td>
<td>These are the dedicated physical servers</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>VMware Engine</td>
<td>This is a kind of service that allows you to run the VMware workload in Google Cloud</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Managed Instance Groups</td>
<td>This lets you manage and create multiple compute engine VMs</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Load Balancing</td>
<td>This lets you balance load across multiple instances of an application or a service. which isw usally considered as a networking solution.</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Managed Compute Services*

<table>
<tr>
<th>GCP Services Name</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>App Engine</td>
<td>This is a PaaS offering that lets you deploy web applications and RESTful api's quickly</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Run</td>
<td>Cloud Run lets you run the isolated containers, without the necessity of orchestration (Serverlss). Here you do not need to provision and manage VMs. Start containers in seconds. This is a Knative compatible Service. This is the easiest option available in google cloud.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>GKE or Kubernetes Engine</td>
<td>This is a managed kubenetes service that allows you to have container orchestration.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Functions</td>
<td>This is a serverless compute option for the event driven apps. For instance consider a scenrio of getting a messsage in Pub/Sub and you want to respond to that. In cloud functions you pay for the invocations</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Anthos</td>
<td>This is used to manage the kubernetes clusters in multi cloud and on prem environment.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Firebase</td>
<td>This is a Google's mobile platform, which is built for iOS, Android, the web, c++ and unity.</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Storage Services in Google Cloud*

<table>
<tr>
<th>GCP Service Name</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Persistent Disk</td>
<td>This is the block storage for your VMs.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Local SSD</td>
<td>Local ephemeral block storage for your VMs</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Firestore</td>
<td>This is a file share in cloud</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Storage</td>
<td>This is a object storage service in google cloud.</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Databases in Google Cloud*

<table>
<tr>
<th>GCP Service Name</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud SQL</td>
<td>This is a regional relational OLTP database (MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL server)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Spanner</td>
<td>This is a global relational OLTP database with unlimited scale and 99.99% availability for the global applications with the horizontal scaling.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Firestore</td>
<td>This is for the apps that needs quickly evolving structure (Schema-less). Serverless transactional document DB supporting mobile and web apps. Small to medium DBs (0 to few TBs).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud BigTable</td>
<td>This is a service for the large databases like (10 TBs-PBs), Streaming(IOT), ananlytical and operational workloads, Not serverless.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Memorystore</td>
<td>In Memory databases/cache. Applications neeeding nicroservice responses</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Stream, Analytics, BigData Managed Service*

<table>
<tr>
<th>GCP Service Name</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Pub/Sub</td>
<td>It is a service for realtime messaging in google cloud.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BigQuery</td>
<td>This is a relational OLAP databases, for datawarehousing and bigdata workloads</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BigQuery ML</td>
<td>Simplified machine learning using data in BigQuery.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Dataflow</td>
<td>This is a serverless stream and batch processing using the apache beam which is an open source framework.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Dataproc</td>
<td>This is a managed service for spark or hadoop. This is not a serverless service as it needs its clusters to be managed.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cloud Data Fusion</td>
<td>This service lets you visually manage your data pipelines</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Data Studio</td>
<td>This service lets you visualize your data in form of dashboards or charts.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Looker</td>
<td>This is an enterprise business intelligence tool.</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Managed Migrate Services*

<table>
<tr>
<th>GCP Service Name</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Database Migration Service</td>
<td>This service lets you migrate your data to cloud SQL service.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Storage Transfer Service</td>
<td>This service lets the online transfer of data to cloud storage</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Transfer Appliance</td>
<td>This is a service that allows you to tranfer your data using an appliance.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Migrate for Compute Engine</td>
<td>This is a service that lets you migrate your VMs and VM storage to GCE from VMware, Microsoft Azure, Amazon EC2.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Migrate for Anthos</td>
<td>This is a service to migrate your VMs to GKE containers</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BigQuery Data Transfer Service</td>
<td>This is a service to migrate your analytics data</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Some Things to Remember:*

- Migrate for Anthos or GKE assists you in mordenizing apps by Migrating your VMs to containers.
- Cloud Spanner is a global relational database service that provides you with unlimited scale.
- Cloud Dataflow is a service that can be used to process streaming data using a serverless approach.