**Google Compute Engine**

For deploying applications you need servers, and for servers you need hardware. In Cloud you rent those virtual servers, which are called *Virtual Machines* (VMs). These VMs are hosted on Google's infrastructure. These VMs are called *Compute Engine*. Here as they come under the Google Cloud's umbrella there is a service that is called as *Google Compute Engine* which is used to provision and manage these VMs. These VMs are called *Compute Engine VMs*.

This Compute Engine service allows the user to manage the whole lifecycle (This lifecyle involves creating a VM, Start or Stop a VM, Restart or Terminate a VM and many more such operations) of the VMs. Here you can plan for autoscaling and Load balancing for multiple VM instances. Compute Engine allows allows the user to attach storage or add network storage solutions for the VMs and have your needed Operating System onto these drives. This Service comes with multiple options like allowing the users to have the networking connectivity and configurations for the VMs, have the security and access control for the VMs, have the monitoring and logging for the VMs and many more such options in their hands.

**Install Apache Web Server on a VM**

Here we will be creating a VM instance and then install Apache Web Server on it. We will be using the Google Cloud Console for this.

1. Go to the Google Cloud Console and select the project you want to work on.

2. Go to the Navigation Menu and select Compute Engine.

3. Click on the Create Instance button.

4. Give a name to your instance.

5. Select the region and zone where you want to deploy your instance.

6. Select the Machine Type. Here we will be using the default Machine Type.

7. Select the Boot Disk. Here we will be using the default Boot Disk.

8. Select the Firewall. Here we will be using the default Firewall.

9. Click on the Create button.

10. Wait for the VM to be created.

11. Click on the SSH button to connect to the VM.

12. As you will SSH, take the root user access by typing the following command:
    ```
    sudo su
    ```

13. Now update the packages by typing the following command:
    ```
    apt update
    ```

14. Now install the Apache Web Server by typing the following command:
    ```
    apt install apache2
    ```

15. Now check for the external IP of the VM from the Google Cloud Console.

16. Now go to the browser and type the following command:
    ```
    http://<External IP of the VM>
    ```
    You will see the default Apache Web Server page.

17. Now we need to put our own HTML page on the Apache Web Server. For this we need to go to the VM and type the following command:
    ```
    cd /var/www/html
    ```

18. You will see an index.html file here. This is the default HTML page of the Apache Web Server. We need to replace this with our own HTML page. For this we need to remove this file by typing the following command:
    ```
    rm index.html
    ```
    This will remove the index.html file.

19. Now we need to create our own HTML file. For this we need to type the following command:
    ```
    vi index.html
    ```

20. Now press the i key to go into the insert mode and type the following HTML code:
    ```
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>My First Web Page</title>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>Hello World!</h1>
        </body>
    </html>
    ```
    
21. Now press the Esc key to go into the command mode and type the following command:
    ```
    :wq
    ```
    This will save the file and exit the vi editor.

22. Now go to the browser and type the following command:
    ```
    http://<External IP of the VM>
    ```

**IP addresses in Virtual Machines**

- *Internal IP Addresses:* These IP addresses are used for communication between the VMs or the other resources in the same network. These IP addresses are not reachable from the internet. These are also permanent IP addresses as they are assigned to the VMs when they are created and they are not changed until the VM is deleted.

- *External IP Addresses:* These IP addresses are used for communication outside of the VMs or the other resources in the same network. These IP addresses are reachable from the internet. These are ephemeral IP addresses as they are assigned to the VMs when they are created and they are changed when the VM is stopped and restarted. Now, what's the solution for this?

- *Static IP Addresses:* Permanent External IP addresses can be assigned to the VMs by using the Static IP Addresses. You can change the ephemerality of the External IP addresses to static by reserving a static IP address and then assigning it to the VM. This will make the External IP address permanent and it will not change even if the VM is stopped and restarted.