**Managed Services**

There are many ways to run different flavours of services in the Cloud. Like,

- IaaS: Infrastructure as a Service
- PaaS: Platform as a Service
- SaaS: Software as a Service
- FaaS: Function as a Service
- CaaS: Container as a Service
- DBaaS: Database as a Service
- AaaS: Analytics as a Service
- MaaS: Monitoring as a Service
- SECaaS: Security as a Service
- DRaaS: Disaster Recovery as a Service
- BaaS: Backup as a Service
- STaaS: Storage as a Service
- NaaS: Network as a Service
- Serverless
and many more...

Managed Services are the kind of services that are managed by the Cloud Provider. For example, if you are using a Database as a Service, you don't have to worry about the underlying infrastructure, the Cloud Provider will take care of it. You just have to use the service.

**IAAS(Infrastructure as a Service)**

Infrastructure as a Service is the most basic form of Cloud Computing. In this model, the Cloud Provider will provide you with only the infrastructure like Servers, Storage, Networking, etc. Here you'll be responsible for

- Managing the Application Code and Runtimes
- Configuring the load balancing
- Auto Scaling
- OS Upgrades and Patches
- Availability and Fault Tolerance
- Data Backup and Recovery
- Security and Compliance
and many more...

**PAAS(Platform as a Service)**

Platform as a Service is the next level of Cloud Computing. In this model, the Cloud Provider will provide you with the infrastructure as well as the platform to run your application. Here you'll be responsible for

- Configuring (Application and Services)
- Application Code (If Needed)

Cloud Provider is responsible for,

- Managing the Operating System (which includes OS Upgrades and Patches)
- Application Runtime
- Auto Scaling, Availability, Load Balancing, Fault Tolerance

Google App Engine, Heroku, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, etc are some of the examples of PaaS.

This PaaS also has a variety of flavours like,

- CaaS(Container as a Service): Which allows you to run your application in a containerized environment.
- FaaS(Function as a Service): Which allows you to run your application in the form of Functions.
- Databases: Which are relational and non-relational databases based on your needs. If you want SQL you have servicesa like AWS RDS, Google Cloud SQL, etc. If you want NoSQL you have services like AWS DynamoDB, Google Cloud Datastore, etc.
