**Google Cloud Compute Services**

**App Engine**

App Engine is a fully managed, serverless platform to deploy and Scale your applications in GCP. It is a Platform as a Service (PaaS) offering. It comes with a whole end to end application management. App Engine supports many languages like Java, Python, PHP, Node.js, Ruby, Go, .Net with pre-configured runtimes and frameworks. It also supports custom runtimes and can write your code in any language. Using App Engine also allows you to connect to variety of Google Cloud Storage services like Cloud SQL, Cloud Datastore, Cloud Storage, Cloud Endpoints, Cloud Pub/Sub, Cloud Logging, Cloud Monitoring, Cloud Trace, Cloud Debugger, Cloud Console, Cloud Shell, Cloud SDK, Cloud IAM, Cloud Deployment Manager, Cloud Security Scanner, Cloud Mobile App, Cloud VPN, Cloud DNS, Cloud CDN, Cloud Interconnect, Cloud Router, Cloud Load Balancing, Cloud CDN, Cloud DNS, Cloud CDN and many more.

There are no usage charges for it and you only pay for the resources you use. It is highly scalable and also handles load balancing while keeping health checks and monitoring in place. These platforms are managed by the Google team and you don’t have to worry about the underlying infrastructure. You can also have your applications versioned and can roll back to previous versions if needed. It also supports traffic splitting and canary deployments. 

**Compute Engine vs App Engine**

- Compute Engine
  - Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
  - It is more flexible as you have more things in control.
  - You also have to manage the underlying infrastructure.
    - Choosing Image
    - Installing the Software
    - It also allows you to choose the hardware configuration.
    - You have fine grained access or permissions to the underlying infrastructure.
    - It lets you to have the certificates and firewalls in place.

- App Engine
  - Platform as a Service (PaaS)
  - It is a serverless platform and you don’t have to worry about the underlying infrastructure.
  - So as it comes with the lesser amount of responsibility
  - It is more restrictive as you don’t have much control over the underlying infrastructure, which makes it less flexible.

**App Engine Environments**

*Standard Environment:* This is a kind of a sandbox environment where you can only use the pre-configured runtimes and frameworks which means you can only run specific languages.

- V1: It is the first generation of App Engine and if you have application running with older versions of Java, Python, PHP, Go, Node.js, Ruby, .Net, you can use this environment.
- V2: It is the second generation of App Engine and it supports newer versions of Java, Python, PHP, Go, Node.js, Ruby, .Net. It also supports custom runtimes and you can write your code in any language.
- If you have an application in app engine you will not have access to the OS and Disk. You can't edit the configurations of the OS and Disk. 
- App Engine also supports the scaling down to zero instances if there is not traffic to your application. It also supports auto scaling and can scale up to 1000 instances. It also supports traffic splitting and canary deployments. This also helps in saving the overall cost of the application.

*Flexible Environments:* This is an environment where the instances run within the Docker Containers on the Google's Infrastructure.

- Flexible Environment makes the use of Compute Engine instances and you have more control over the underlying infrastructure.
- Flexible Environment supports any of the runtime with the built in support for Java, Python, PHP, Go, Node.js, Ruby, .Net.
- Flexible Environment cannot scale down to zero instances, it will always have at least one instance running.

**Create App Engine Application**

- Go to the App Engine and click on the Create Application.
- First, you have to enable the App Engine API.
- 