**Storage in GCP**

*Block Storage and File Storage*

- You can say your laptop hard drive as a Block Storage.

- For certain kind of conditions which allows you to share the set of files with multiple users, you can use File Storage.

*Block Storage*

Block storage is more of like same as standard or traditional storage types, this is available in both on-premises and cloud. In this type of storage, the data is stored in blocks. These blocks are managed by the operating system. A single block storage is often connected to a single server, and this is the reason why it is not possible to share the data with multiple users. There is still an option of connecting multiple block storage to a single server, but this is not a recommended approach.

This Block Storage can be used as as Direct Attached Storage (DAS) which allows you for a similar option like of a hard drive. This can also be used as a Storage Area Network (SAN) which is a high speed network connection that allows you to connect a pool of storage devices. This SAN is used by the servers to access the storage devices like Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server.

*File Storage*

File Storage is a type of storage which allows you to share the data with multiple users. It is best suited for workloads like Media Workflows which need huge shared storage for purposes like the video editing or the rendering. This File storage can also be used where there you need to share the files in a secure and organized way among the various virtual servers.

*Block Storage and File Storage in GCP*

- Block Storage in GCP
  - Persistent Disk: Network Block Storage for VMs. Whenever you create a VM, you have attached a persistent disk by default. This persistent disk is a network block storage which is used by the VMs. 
    - Zonal Persistent Disk: Data is replicated within a zone
    - Regional Persistent Disk: Data is replicated within a region or multiple zones
  - Local SSD: Local Block Storage
- File Storage in GCP
  - Cloud Filestore: Managed high performance file storage

*Cloud Storage*

This is the most popular service of GCP which is very scalable as well as very flexible and inexpensive storage service. This service is based on serverless architecture which makes it infinite to scale up and down. This service lets you to store the large objects using a key-value approach. This service treats the whole objects as a single unit and it does not allow you to make any changes to the object. If you want to make any changes to the object, you need to upload the whole object again. This service also gives you the power of access control at the object level which means you can control who can access the object and who cannot. That's why it is known as Object Type Storage.

This service also provides you the option of getting REST API service to access and modify the objects in the bucket. Here you can make use of the CLI (gsutil) to access the objects in the bucket and you can make also use of client libraries like Java, Python, Node.js, etc. to access and modify the objects in the bucket.

Cloud Storage allows you to store all kind of files like text, binary, backup and archives. This also helps in staging the data during the on premise to cloud database migration. This service also provides you the option of storing the data in a multi-regional location or a regional location or a nearline location or a coldline location. This service also provides you the option of storing the data in a multi-regional location or a regional location or a nearline location or a coldline location.

You will always be having low latency access to the data which is stored in the Cloud Storage with the unlimited storage capacity. This service gives you helping hand with autoscaling and no minimum object size. There will be same APIs across the storage classes. For this service to the committed SLA is 99.95% for the multiple region and 99.9% for Standard, Nearline and Coldline Storage classes but there is no committed SLA for the Archive Storage class.

*Storage Classes in Cloud Storage*

<table>
<tr>
<th>Storage Class</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Minimum Storage Duration</th>
<th>Typical Monthly Availability</th>
<th>Use Case</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Standard</td>
<td>STANDARD</td>
<td>None</td>
<td>>99.99% (Higher) in multi-region and dual region, 99.99% in region</td>
<td>Frequently used data/Short period of time</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nearline Storage</td>
<td>NEARLINE</td>
<td>30 Days</td>
<td>99.95% in multi-region and dual region, 99.9% in region</td>
<td>Read or modify once a month or less on average</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Coldline Storage</td>
<td>COLDLINE</td>
<td>90 Days</td>
<td>99.95% in multi-region and dual region, 99.9% in region</td>
<td>Read or modify once a quarter or less on average</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Archive Storage</td>
<td>ARCHIVE</td>
<td>365 Days</td>
<td>99.95% in multi-region and dual region, 99.9% in region</td>
<td>Less than once a year</td>
</tr>
</table>

User can configure the default storage class at a Bucket Level, you can also configure the storage class at an object level. If you add any object without the storage class, then the default storage class will be applied to that object.

*Creating a Persistent Disk*

- Go to search bar and search for Cloud Storage and click on Cloud Storage.

- Click on Create Bucket.

- Give a name to the bucket like here we are giving the name same as the project name. This is because the bucket name should be unique across the GCP.

- 