**Databases in Google Cloud**

While moving ahead with the databases you first need to understand the requirement or use-case of your data storage. There are some factors on the basis of which you can identify the factors:

- Do you want a fixed schema, while maintaing the flexibility for defining and keep changing the schema (Schemaless).

- What level of the transaction properties do you need to maintain the atomicity and consistency.

- What kind of the latency you are expecting out of it like based on second, mili-second or micro-second latency.

- How many transcations you're expecting with the databases like hundreds, thousands or millions of transactions per second.

- What amount of data you are going to store like MBs or GBs or TBs or PBs.

**Relational Databases**

Relational Databases are the types of databases in which the data is stored with the predefined schema with tables and relationships. RDBMS comes with very strong transactional capabilities. This kind of databases are usually a perfect fit for OLTP(Online Transaction Processing) and OLAP(Online Analytics Processing) use cases.

*OLTP (Online Transaction Processing)*

OLTP or Online Transaction Processing is a type of data processing which lets you execute a number of transactions happening concurrently like the online banking, shopping, order entry, ERP, CRM, tradtional applications or sending text messages. In this space of OLTP the popular databases are MYSQL, Oracle, SQL Server etc. Recommended Google managed services are:

- Cloud SQL: This service supports the most popular open source and commercial engines like the PostgreSQL, MYSQL and SQL Server for the regional relational databases which can store upto few TBs.

- Cloud Spanner: This service comes with 99.999% availability for the global applications which comes with horizontal scaling and supports unlimited scaling of storage which supports multiple PBs.

*OLAP (Online Analytics Processing)*

OLAP or Online analytics Processing Applications lets the users to analyze the Petabytes of data with an ease. Example of OLAP are Reporting Applications, Data Ware Houses, Business Intelligence Applications and Analytics Systems. For instance you can consider a usecase for analyzing 100 days of an investment firm. Data is collected here from multiple transactional databases.

Recommended GCP Managed Service is *BigQuery* which is a Petabyte-Scale data warehouse solution.

*Relational Databases- OLAP vs OLTP*

- OLAP and OLTP uses the same kind of data structures.

- But these both have a absolutely different approach in the way of storing the data.

- OLTP Databases make use of the row storages where every single table row is stored together and it is more efficient to carry out the smaller transactions.

- OLAP Databases make use of the columnar storages which lets the table column to be stored together. When you store data in vertical way or columnary way you can store certain kind of data together which make use of that data efficiently and store petabytes of data. This also lets you to distribute the data across multiple cluster nodes which lets the execution of the complex queries across multiple nodes which makes the load distributed and make the whole process efficient.

*No SQL Databases*

No SQL Databases which are known well by the name of "Not Only SQL" are the type of non-tabular databases and store the data in database in totally different way. NO SQL Datbases comes with the flexible schema which lets you to structure or carve the data as per your application's need. Here you let the schema to evolve and refine with the process. You can have your Database scaled in a horizontal fashion upto the petabytes if data with millions of transaction per second. Ultimately you can consider NO SQL databases which lets you achieve "Scalability and High-Performance".

Google Cloud's managed service for NO SQL usecase is Cloud Firestore and Cloud BigTable. 

*Cloud Firestore vs Cloud Bigtable*

- Cloud Firestore is a Serverless database which is used to effortlessly scale and meet the demands of without any maintainance.
  - Cloud Firestore supports ACID(Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation and Durability) transactions, SQL like Queries, Indexes which is a perfect for transactional mobile and web applications.
  - Cloud Firestore has built in live synchronization and offline modes that make it easy to develop the real time applications.
  - Firestore provides seamless integration with Google Cloud Firebase and other Google Cloud Services.

- Cloud BigTable is a managed NoSQL Big Data database service, this service it the backbone of multiple services which google provides us like Google Search, Google Analytics, Google Map and GMAIL.
  - BigTable is not a serverless service, you need to create instances.
  - It is recommended for the data size which is greater than 10 Terabytes to several Petabytes.
  - It is recommended for large analytical and operational workloads. It is not recommended for the transactional workloads or you can say they does not support multi-row transactions and only supports single row transactions.

*In Memory Databases*

- In memory databases are much faster than any other type of database because they retrive the data back from the memory rather than the data from disk.
- Databases like Redis are able to deliver the microsecond latency by storing persistent data in the memory.
- For such kind of usage there is managed GCP service by name Memory Store.
- The use cases for such kind of service can be Caching, Session Management, Gaming Leader Board, Geospatial Applications

**Summary**

<table>
<tr>
<th>Database Type</th>
<th>GCP Services</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Relational OLTP Databases</td>
<td>Cloud SQL, Cloud Spanner</td>
<td>These kind of databases are mostly intended for Transactional Usecases with their predefined schema and very strong transactional capabilities.

*Cloud SQL:* MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server DBs

*Cloud Spanner:* Unlimited scale and 99.999% availability for the global applications with horizontal scaling
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Relational OLAP databases</td>
<td>BigQuery</td>
<td>This is a columnar storage with the predefined schema. Datawarehousing and BigData workloads.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NoSQL Databases</td>
<td>Cloud FireStore, Cloud BigTable</td>
<td>Application that needs quickly evolving structure(Schema-less)

*Cloud FireStore:* It is a serverless transactional document database which supports mobile and web apps. Storage capacity is from 0 to few TBs.

*Cloud BigTable:* Cloud Bigtable is a larger database which lets you hold Large Databases (10 TB - PBs) for use cases like Streaming(IOT), analytical and operational workloads. But this service is not serverless.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>In Memory databases/caches</td>
<td>Cloud Memorystore</td>
<td>It for the applications and use cases where you need microsecond response</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Database Scenarios*

<table>
<tr>
<th>Scenario</th>
<th>Solution</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>A Startup with quickly evolving schema (table structure</td>
<td>Cloud Datastore/Firestore</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Non relational database with less storage (10GB)</td>
<td>Cloud Datastore</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Transactional global database with predefined schema needing to process million of transactions per second</td>
<td>Cloud Spanner</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Transactional local database processing thousands of transactions per second</td>
<td>Cloud SQL</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cache data (from database) for a web application</td>
<td>Memory Store</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Database for analytics processing of petabytes of data.</td>
<td>BigQuery</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Database for storing huge volumes stream data from IOT devices</td>
<td>BigTable</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Database for storing huge streams of time series data</td>
<td>BigTable</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Some Things to Remember:*

- Cloud SQL is a relational OLTP database service in GCP.

- Cloud BigQuery is a relational OLAP database service in GCP.

- Cloud Firestore is a No SQL database service in GCP.

- Cloud BigTable is a managed, No SQL wide column database suitable for huge databases greater then 10 TB.

- Cloud BigTable is a recommended service for huge volumes (Petabytes) of streaming data from IOT Devices.

- Cloud SQL is a Google Cloud Relational transactional database with unlimited scale.

