**Cloud Identity and Access Management**

**IAM (Identity and Access Management)**

We have multiple number of resources and services in Cloud which requires access and permissions to carry out the work. Here the *Identities* come in place through which human or non-human identities access these resources and perform access. For example there is an adminstrator who needs access to the servers and keep the patches or the services running well which is an example of a human identity and there is an application which needs to access or retrive the data from the database servers here comes the non human identity.

In GCP, Identity and Access Management lets the users to configure the resources they can access and configure the actions which needs to be allowed. There is one thing you should start with giving the least number of privilege to the end user.

This IAM thing is all about the Authentication (Is the right user?) and Authorization (Do they have right access to do that task). Here the identities can be A GCP User (Google Account or Externally Authenticated Users) or A group of GCP Users or An application that is running in GCP or Can be an application which is running in your data center or An Unauthenticated users. This whole IAM lets you have granular control over the resources and limits you to a single user to perform a single actions on a specific cloud resource from a specific IP address during a specific time window.

*Cloud IAM Example*

You want provide access of a specific cloud storage bucket with one of your colleague with permissions to manage with the actions like Upload and Delete objects. *Roles* are the set of permissions which are used to perform certain set of specific actions on specific resources. Roles do not know about the members, here the roles are all about the permissions. For assigning the permissions to a member we need to assign or bind a role to a member. In context you can say a Role is a set of rules which allows the assigne to do those all authorized work.

For instance there is a role named *roles/compute.admin* which provides you full control of all the Compute Engine Resources, you assign this role using a Policy. Here you will be creating a Policy binding member(which can be any user) with the roles(set of rules or permissions).

*Cloud IAM Roles*

IAM Roles consits of a set of permissions that allows you to perform certain actions on the google cloud resources. To make permissions available to principals, including users, groups and service accounts, you grant roles to those principals.

There are three types of roles:

- Basic Roles(or Primitive Roles)- This kind of roles include the Owner, Editor and Viewer roles which existed prior to the introduction of IAM. Like if you have a *Viewer(roles.viewer)* this will just allow you to do read only actions, *Editor(roles.editor)* which lets you have the privilages of Viewer role with giving you the right to make changes or edits on all of the resources and at last we have *Owner(roles.owner) which lets you have all the permissions of the Editor role and allows you take charge or control of Roles and Permissions while controlling the billing as well. These roles are not recommended in the higher level of environments as they give a wider scope rather than the granular or specified permissions.

- Predefined Roles, are the roles which provides you with granular access for a specific service and these roles are managed by Google Cloud themselves. These roles are less wider than the basic roles as they give a limited only access and comes up with more controls. Example of Predefined roles are Storage Admin, Storage Object Admin, Storage Object Viewer or Storage Object Creator. You can have these roles in place in the higher environments.

- Custom Roles, these roles gets you the granular access to a user-specfied list of permissions which allows the user to get more things in place out of it. These roles comes in place when your Basic and Predefined Role are not sufficient and you need more granular or specific kind of access.

*Service Accounts*

A service account is a special kind of account which is usually used by an application or compute workload, rather than a person. In Simple, Service account is a account that will allow the services to make certain changes by making authorized API calls by authenticating a service account or as a Google Workspace or Cloud Identity. As this process of authentication gets completed, the service gets access to all resources that the service account has permission to access.

One thing to mention about service account which do not have a password. These service accounts authenticate with the help of private/public RSA key-pairs. You can't login using service account via cookies or browsers.

*Service Account Types*

- *Default Service Account:* These accounts are automatically created when some services are provisioned. These service accounts are not recommended as they have editor roles by default present in them.

- *User Managed:* These accounts are created by the users and lets the users to control and provide fine grained access control to the services.