*Managing Google Cloud Resources*

*Hierarchy*

Google Cloud follows a very well defined hierarchy, which consists of a Organization under which there is a Folder and under that comes the Project followed by its Resources under it.

Organization > Folder > Project > Resources

Resources are created inside of the projects, where as there are Folders which can accomodate multiple projects, and these folders comes under of an Organization.

*Organizing Practices*

- You must create seperate or individual projects under the folders for the different environments, like for instance you can plan for test environments and production environments so if the projects will be different in this case you will be able to get much better level of isolation and access management between both of the environments.

- You can also plan and create seperate folders for the each department which make the overall handeling of projects way easier.

- Likewise we can plan for the shared resources to keep them in a separate folder which does not let them share the resources.

- Here we consider a use-case for having *One Project Per Application per Environment*

Here we have two application named "App1" and "App2" which are needed to be deployed into two environments named "Env1" which is more of the development environment and "Env2" which is the production environment.

 So as we have 2 applications and 2 environments we will be distributing them as per the needs which makes a combination which is best in terms of isolation and have a granular or great access management on these environments for instance only the environments developer can access be the Env1 and not let them get into the production environment which will let you achieve great control and stability over everything. As per this whole condition the Developer can do their experimental changes or Perform actions like Creating new features, Deleting the existing features or Deploying some changes or improvements to the environment.

 So we will be having four project in place with combination of application and environment like: A1-Env1, A1-Env2, A2-Env1 and A2-Env2 which will not bring the dev changes to the PROD and will let you give access of the production evironment to the operations team only.

 *Biling Account*

 Billing Account is the most mandatory thing to create the resources inside of the project, This billing account consists of the payment details. Ultimately you can say Billing Account is the main thing to run a project. Every project that consists of active resources must have a billing account.

 Here these billing accounts can be linked or associated with one or more projects else you can have multiple billing accounts inside of a single organization.

 Recommended Practice: You can create Billing Accounts based on the Organization structure:

 - Here a startup can have just have one billing account.

 - For a large enterprise you can have a seperate billing account for each department.

 Here there are two types of billing accounts:

- *Self-Serve:* This kind of billing account is billed directly to the credit card or bank account.

- *Invoiced:* Here the generated invoices are used by the large enterprises.

*Managing Billing- Budgets, Alerts and Exports*

We need to pay for whatever we use in cloud as it works on the pay as you go model, so as the billing gets generated you can have Cloud Billing Budget setup, which lets you have some alerts in place like we have budgets when we plan to have something at home.

So here we configure the alerts as the thresholds are met you get an alert, there are default alerts set to 50%, 90% and 100%. Here the Billing admins and Billing Accounts will be alerted by email or you can have Pub Sub setted up for sending the alerts to it.

This billing data have only two types of export and can be exported (on a schedule) to multiple cloud services:

- BigQuery: You can use this cloud service in case you want to query information or visualize it.

- Cloud Storage: This can be used to store for the purpose of history or archiving.

*IAM Best Practices*

- Principle of Least Privilege: Give the most least amount of privilege or access required for the role. Here's why Basic roles are not recommended here as these provides a wider scope and that's why its better to have predefined roles in place whenever it is possible.

- Use Service accounts with the minimum rights and privileges and you can have different service accounts for different kind of apps and purposes.

- Seperation of Duties: You must break-down the sensitive tasks and have atleast 2 people's involved in these types of tasks, this will not let a dependency to be created in place.

  - Example: Having seperate deployer and traffic migrator roles in the Cloud Environment. 

    - App Engine comes with 2 roles, one is App Engine Deployer and App Engine Service admin Role where the role of An App Engine Deployer is to deploy an application to a new version but App Engine deployer would not be able to perform other tasks like shifting the traffic or cannot modify the existing versions of the application, where as the another role of App Engine Service admin allows the user to shift the traffic and not allowing the same person yp jto a new version.

*Constant Monitoring*

This monitoring lets you review the cloud audit logs to audit the changes to the IAM policies and gives you the access to the Service Account Keys. Here you can have the Archived cloud audit logs stored in the cloud storage buckets for the long time retention.

You can have the team members aligned or grouped into Groups which can be efficient way of delivering the services at the best. For example you have 10 peoples in the deployment team with their distinguished roles and one team member who sees over the build is absent and in his/her absence the team will receive the message and can fix the build likewise by some other person of the team, here the group gets involved and leads to better efficiency.

*Public vs Private vs Hybrid Cloud*

- Public Cloud: Public cloud is a model that lets you have on-demand resources, services and infrastructure that are managed by the third party providers and shared with multiple organizations and customers using the public internet connectivity. Public cloud services lets you have cloud based services like Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS) for users to use them on demand and pay by month or pay as you go model, eliminating the users to have these services hosted in your own environments. Public cloud lets you eliminate the need of the datacenter anymore and there is no need to pay for the hardware as you're renting the hardware for the moment and have the power to unlimited scale at your disposal. Here the hardware resources are owned by the Google Cloud where they need to do the capacity management, hardware failures and security of the data center are Google Cloud's responsibility.

- Private Cloud: Private cloud is a cloud computing model that is dedicated to a single user while keeping the hardware hosted at the organization's own datacenter at a third party colocation facility or via a private Cloud Provider who offers private Cloud hosting service. It is more like of raising your grain yourself to make bread for yourself. Here when you have your hardware then you have to put a lot of capital expenditure and also invest in staffing and maintaining the expenses for the infrastructure. In the private cloud model if you want some additional infrastructure you must need to have planning ahead of time as it is expensive and time consuming at the same time. For instance you released a new product and the traffic gets increased exponentially, you will have to plan likewise and you cant suddenly bring servers from anywhere.

- Hybrid Cloud: A Hybrid cloud consists of both of the elements of the public and private cloud which lets you have a flexible mix of the cloud computing services. It is more of like having some workloads on the Public cloud whereas using other environments for other usecases. For example Using Google Cloud Dataflow service to process a data stream from your on premise applications. Here you can also connect an on premise application to Google Cloud SQL database. This cloud model gives with a lot of flexibility where you can switch based on your requirement between the public and private cloud computing model. There is one major drawback of this as there will always going to be a bridge between the cloud and the private datacenter environment will be increasing the complexity.

- Multi-Cloud: Multi cloud is the next version of the hybrid cloud that lets you have a mix of multiple public cloud services. When you are moving to multi cloud, these services utilize a combination of on-premise, public cloud, public cloud and edge to build, operate, access and secure their applications consistently across the cloud. Multi cloud comes with more flexibility but at the same time it increases the complexity.

*Cloud VPN*

Cloud VPN lets you connect on-premise network to the GCP network by peering your network to Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) using an IPsec VPN connection. Here the traffic which travels between two networks which is encrypted by One VPN Gateway and then decrypted by the other VPN gateway. This action protects your data as it travels through the internet. Here the traffic is encrypted using the Internet Key Exchange protocol.

There are two types of Cloud VPN solutions:

- *HA (High Availability) VPN* (This provides SLA of 99.99% service availability with two external IP addresses). This only supports dynamic routing (BGP).

- *Classic VPN* (This provides SLA of 99.9% service availability, a single external IP addresses). This supports static routing (policy-based, route-based) and dynamic routing using BGP.

*Cloud Interconnect*

Cloud interconnect allows you the user to establish the connection with the external network to the google network via a high availability and low-latency connection. Ultimately its acts like an networking endpoint between the google cloud or on-premise and VPC network. This network gives you extra throughput and supports via providing other networking functionalities.

There are two types of connections that are possible:
- *Dedicated Interconnect:* 10 Gbps or 100 Gbps configurations

- *Partner Interconnect:* 50 Mbps to 10 Gbps configurations

Here the data exchange between two of your environments happens using a private network and communicate using VPC's internal IP addresses from your on-premise network which also lets you save a lot on the egress cost as there will be no use of the public internet in this case.

An extended feature for this is the support for the Google APIs and services which can be accessed from your on-premise environment. Frquent use of cloud interconnect is not recommended as it is only considered for high bandwidth needs else-wise you can move ahead with Cloud VPN.

*Direct Peering*

Direct Peering lets you have a direct connection between the your business network and Google's edge network and exchange with the high-throughput cloud traffic. It is like a direct path to your workspace from your home, likewise it is the direct path from on-premise to the google's services. One thing here which is needed to be highlighted that **Direct Peering** is not a service and it is a Lower level network connection outside of the GCP and generally it is not recommended. Generally it is not recommended, you can have the cloud interconnect and cloud VPN in place of the Direct Peering.

**User Identity Management in Google Cloud**

- Email Id which is used to create a account gets the => *Super Admin* role which is like the lead actor of any movie. Here this super admin has access to everything in the GCP organization, folders and projects. This is also responsible for managing the access or Binding to the other users using their Gmail accounts.

- When you think from the prespective of an organization, you will be having the Google Workspace in the place, here Google Workspace takes everything in their hands and use the Google Workspace to manage the users(groups etc) and you can also link your google cloud organization with Google Workspace.

- Your organization is using any other Identity provider of its own then you can federate your Identity provider with it to seamlessly manage everything on the go. Here this linking refers to the Linking of the Cloud Identity or Google Workspace with your external identity provider (IDP) like Active Directory, Azure Active Directory or JumpCloud which is one of the Directory as a Service Provider. When you have setted up and working in sync you can have your Single Sign On (SSO) enabled in place.

*Organization Policy Service*

You can have the centralized constrains configured over the resources in an organization which needs to have your Organization Policy configured with policy like Disabling the creation of the service accounts or allow/deny the creation of the resources in the specific regions.

If you want to setup the Organization Policy Service, you need role of *Organization Policy Administrator* where *IAM* focueses on who can have the rights on specific actions on the resources and the Organizational policy focuses on what can be done with those specific resources, you can have these organizational policies setted up in the IAM console of GCP with the organizational policies like *Enforced Uniform bucket-level access or *Google cloud platform - Resource Location Restriction* (This lets you create or deploy resources in one specific location).

*Resource Hierarchy and IAM Policy*

IAM policy can be set at any level of the hierarchy whether it can be Organization, Folder, Project or Resources. Here the resources will be inheriting the policies of all the parents or the level above them.

At any level of the whole hierarchy the effective policy for the resource is the union of the Policy on the resource level and its inherited parents or you can say Policy inheritence is transitive which means any policy enforced at the organizational level will be inherited throughoutg down the hierarchy of the Folder to the Projects and the Resources, but you can't restrict any policy at the lower level which is enforced at the higher level like you can't edit or make the policy in-efficient at the Project level if it is enforced at the Organization level.

*Identity Platform*

Identity platform is a Customer Identity and access management(CIAM) system that helps the admin and other high level people's to add the identities and manage the accesses to the applications, environments and scale seamlessly whenever needed. You can use Identity platform for the multi-tenant SaaS applications, mobile and web apps, games, APIs and much more.

The key difference between Cloud IAM and Identity Platform is the way it is designed to work. Cloud IAM is for more for the Employees and the partner authorization work which allows you for the controlling the access management for the google cloud resources and taking more control over the roles, members, enforcing policies and managing the service accounts on the go whereas the identity platform focuses more on the side of authenticating and authorization for your applications and the services.

There are some key features of the Identity Platform:

- Authenticating and Authorizing your web or mobile applications.

- It has multiple authentication measures and methods like SAML, Email and Password combination, Phone login using OTP or dyanmic pop-ups, Social Logins like authenticating with Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc.

- Features like user Sign-up and Sign-in, MFA, etc.

- It integrates well with the identity-aware proxy.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Scenario</th>
<th>Solution</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>An Application on a GCE VM that needs access to the cloud storage</td>
<td>Cloud IAM- Service account because there is an implementation of GCE VM</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>An enterprise user that needs access to upload objects to a cloud storage bucket</td>
<td>Cloud IAM</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>I want to manage end users for my application</td>
<td>Identity Platform</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Admin wants to enable the "Login using social networking sites like Facebook or twitter" for their application</td>
<td>Identity Platform</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Developers want to create users sign-up and sign-in workflows for their application</td>
<td>Identity Platform</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Some Things to Remember:*

- "Organization>Folder>Projects>Resources" is the resource hierarchy in the GCP.

- If you want to completely isolate two different departments in an enterprise you can have two folders per department.

- If you want to isolate the production resources from the development resources of a specific application, its best to use seperate projects for the development and production environments and can have IAM to configure the access.

- If you have a large enterprise its better to have seperate billing accounts for each of the department.

- Cloud Provider is responsible for ensuring the adequate capacity of the cloud hardware infrastructure.

- While establishing a hybrid cloud with the google cloud you can federate the active directory with cloud identity by using the Google Cloud Directory Sync (GCDS) and Active directory federation service (AF FS).

- If you dont want to use a private data center to host the infrastructure, web applications and databases for the cloudguy.ml, you can go ahead with the public cloud offering.

- For a situation we are using a private datacenter to host the infrastructure, web applications and databases for my website cloudguy.ml and planning ahead to expand it further it to make use of the infrastructure provided by the google cloud you can move with the hybrid cloud functionality.

- The main characteristic of the Public Cloud is that it goes like Pay per Use.

- You're already using a private data center to host your infrastructure, web applications and databases for the cloudguy.ml. While we are moving our infrastructure to the Google Cloud. After migrating to the google cloud you need to manage the physical server security be a responsibility of the cloudguy.ml.

- Cloud VPN is an encrypted connection from on-premise to Google Cloud over the internet.

- Cloud Interconnect gives you the high-bandwidth private connectivity from on-premise to Google Cloud.