*Bare Metal in Google Cloud*

When you run the specialized workloads based on the SAP HANA, Oracle Databases where you don't need any hypervisor interaction like the resources which need higher performances, You need to go ahead with the Bare Metal servers.

Here the hardware is without any software pre-installed to it, which has the customizable and the dedicated hardware. As there is no hypervisor then it gives you the raw performance than the VMs. You can choose the OS for your bare metal servers but it is like your own DIY server where the end user or customer is responsible for everything like for licensing, installation, and maintainence of all the softwares.

UseCases for Bare metal:

- When you want to have third party virtualization software.
- You have application or workloads that requires direct, low level access to the server.

*Google Cloud VMware Engine*

Google compute gives you the ability of virtualization, But VMware has its own virtualization softwares as well which is very popular with enterprises (virtual desktops(VDI)).

You can use the Google Cloud VMware Engine service: Expand and Migrate that allows you to take your VMware infrastructure to Google Cloud.

- This service allows you to run services natively on Google Cloud Bare Metal infrastructure in a dedicated private cloud.

- You do not need to make the change apps, tools and processes that allows you to continue using your existing VMware workloads.

- You're not intended to worry about the Hardware and the VMware licenses.

- You can make use of the high performance Google Network

- This simplifies the connection to the other Google Cloud Services like Cloud SQL, BigQuery etc.

*Migrate for Compute Engine*

This service allows you to migrate VMs and VM storage to GCE like from VMware, Microsoft Azure, Amazon EC2. This not lets you just migrate 1 or single VM but 1000s of VMs across the data centers and cloud providers.

Some of the important features of this service is:

- You can have test migration before making the move. Here it makes use of the test clone capability which allows you to have non-disruptive testing of the production workloads in the Google Cloud that makes the use of an isolated environment. (This induces zero impact on the live production apps).

- You can migrate the VMs in batches also known as waves using the VM groups.

You need to plan for the whole process of the migration:

1. Planning the migration waves

2. (Optional) It is a pre-migration testing process using the test-clones

3. Then you can have cut-off to the cloud where you move or migrate your VMs to Google Compute Engine and you can migrate the application storage to the google cloud.

4. You can detach your VMs from migrate for the compute engine.

*Migrate for Anthos and GKE*

This comes into the picture when you plan about mordernizing the apps by moving from virtual machines to the containers.